# Context

Any data analytics problem has a business context. The more we know about 
the context, the better positioned we will be to make the project 
successful. That's assuming you are not collaborating with people like 
Anderson is in this video: [The Expert][the_expert] (8 minutes)

In this section, we briefly discuss a few critical aspects of a business 
context that will help you better visualize the big picture of your next 
project.

## Industry
At a large scope, every analytics project belongs to an industry. A few 
examples of industries include retail, consumer packaged goods (CPG), 
logistics,  healthcare, manufacturing, financial services, and 
telecommunications.

Each industry has its unique ways of operating and business priorities. For 
example, one of the biggest priorities in the retail industry is customer 
fulfillment whereas the focus in the manufacturing industry is on 
manufacturing infrastructure. As a result, inventory allocation is more 
relevant for the retail industry while the manufacturing industry is more 
concerned with production planning and scheduling, for instance.

The good news is that we can learn all the key aspects of any given industry 
from the internet. And we recommend doing so as you get involved with a new 
project. Consider even following industry forums such as the ones below:
- [Retail Industry Leaders Association (RILA)][RILA]
- [International Organization of Motor Vehicle Manufacturers (OICA)][OICA]
- [PwC Report on Future of Logistics Industry][PwC]

## Process
Processes are the means by which organizations make decisions and operate 
their business on a daily basis.

Analytics solutions typically use data generated by processes and output 
data that is somehow fed back into these processes to support decisions.

This means that knowing about the processes that your analytics solution 
will be supported, can help you to gain a lot of context about the problem 
without even taking time from your client. It may also lead you to
anticipate requirements and potential issues you will face with your project.

## Stakeholders
Simply put, stakeholders are the people involved in the decision-making 
process of an organization. They may be CEOs, planners, sales
representatives, etc.

What matters to us is that stakeholders are usually in charge of processes. 
And knowing that a data analytics solutions typically impact multiple 
processes, you should expect your solution to attract the attention of 
multiple stakeholders, because it might impact their working routines, 
metrics of measurement, and even performance outcomes.

As a result, your project might face implementation challenges beyond the 
technical ones. This is particularly true in big organizations. 
Unfortunately, there is not a lot that can be done beforehand, but building 
awareness on the topic may help you understand why certain decisions are 
taken and why certain processes are the way they are.

## IT Landscape
In this digital era, processes are run by computer systems, typically 
called *information technology (IT) systems*.

There are IT systems for all sorts of processes, including Enterprise 
Resource Planning (ERP), cloud computing, and data lake.

Most likely, your data analytics solution will interact (by exchanging data) 
with the processes of the organization through its IT systems. Therefore, 
it's a good idea to have at least a high-level understanding of where your 
data analytics solution will fit in the IT landscape. For example, knowing 
sources of data helps to anticipate what type of data will be available and 
build integration and ingestion pipelines.

It's also important to keep in mind that IT professionals will push back 
solutions that may require too much integration work or maintenance.

[the_expert]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BKorP55Aqvg
[RILA]: https://www.rila.org/
[OICA]: https://www.oica.net/
[PwC]: https://www.pwc.com/sg/en/publications/assets/future-of-the-logistics-industry.pdf

### [Home][home] | [Back][back] | [Next][next] | [Help][help]

[home]: ../../README.md
[back]: ../README.md
[next]: ../2_problem_scoping/README.md
[help]: ../../0_help/README.md





